Contributing to MNE-Python
==========================

MNE-Python is maintained by a community of scientists and research labs. The project accepts contributions in the form of bug reports, fixes, feature additions, and documentation improvements (including typo corrections). The best way to start contributing is by [opening an issue](https://github.com/mne-tools/mne-python/issues/new/choose) on our GitHub page to discuss ideas for changes or enhancements, or to tell us about behavior that you think might be a bug. For *general troubleshooting* or *usage questions*, please consider posting your questions on our [MNE Forum](https://mne.discourse.group).

Users and contributors to MNE-Python are expected to follow our [code of conduct](https://github.com/mne-tools/.github/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

The [contributing guide](https://mne.tools/dev/development/contributing.html) has details on the preferred contribution workflow
and the recommended system configuration for a smooth contribution/development experience.


Policy on AI Assistance in Contributions
----------------------------------------
Contributing to MNE-Python requires human judgment, contextual understanding, domain knowledge, and familiarity with MNE-Python’s structure and goals. It is not suitable for automatic processing by AI tools.

You may not submit issues or pull requests generated by fully-automated tools. Maintainers reserve the right, at their sole discretion, to close such submissions and to block any account responsible for them.

Review all code or documentation changes assisted by AI tools and make sure you understand all changes and can explain them on request, before submitting them under your name. Do not submit any AI-generated code that you haven’t personally reviewed, understood and tested. Please pay special attention to whether AI-assisted code reproduces specific passages for specialized algorithms, as this may risk license violations.

Please do not paste AI generated text in the description of issues, PRs or in comments as this makes it harder for reviewers to assess your contribution.
If you used AI tools, state so in your PR description and disclose the tools you have used, and the manner and scope of their assistance (see PR template for examples).

PRs that appear to violate this policy will be closed without review. AI usage is an evolving issue with serious repercussions far beyond the scientific software ecosystem. The MNE-Python project reserves the right to change or reverse this policy given the developments in these areas.
