:orphan:

.. _cited:

Publications by users
=====================

Papers citing MNE (194) as extracted from Google Scholar (on February 03, 2017).

1. `Development of advanced signal processing and source imaging methods for superparamagnetic relaxometry. <http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1361-6560/aa553b/meta>`_. MX Huang, B Anderson, CW Huang… - Physics in Medicine  …, 2017 - iopscience.iop.org.
2. `Decoding the categorization of visual motion with magnetoencephalography. <http://biorxiv.org/content/early/2017/01/25/103044.abstract>`_. Y Bekhti,A Gramfort, N Zilber,V van Wassenhove- bioRxiv, 2017 - biorxiv.org.
3. `Diminished auditory sensory gating during active auditory verbal hallucinations. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0920996417300348>`_. RJ Thoma, A Meier,J Houck,VP Clark,JD Lewine… - Schizophrenia  …, 2017 - Elsevier.
4. `Disambiguating brain functional connectivity. <http://biorxiv.org/content/early/2017/01/25/103002.abstract>`_. E Duff,T Makin,SM Smith,MW Woolrich- bioRxiv, 2017 - biorxiv.org.
5. `Assessing and tuning brain decoders: cross-validation, caveats, and guidelines. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S105381191630595X>`_. G Varoquaux,PR Raamana,DA Engemann… - NeuroImage, 2017 - Elsevier.
6. `Spatiotemporal dynamics of similarity-based neural representations of facial identity. <http://www.pnas.org/content/114/2/388.short>`_. MD Vida, A Nestor,DC Plaut… - Proceedings of the  …, 2017 - National Acad Sciences.
7. `Bayesian EEG source localization using a structured sparsity prior. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811916304554>`_. F Costa,H Batatia,T Oberlin, C D'Giano,JY Tourneret- NeuroImage, 2017 - Elsevier.
8. `Updating temporal expectancy of an aversive event engages striatal plasticity under amygdala control. <http://www.nature.com/articles/ncomms13920>`_. G Dallérac,M Graupner, J Knippenberg… - Nature  …, 2017 - nature.com.
9. `Source analysis of auditory steady-state responses in acoustic and electric hearing. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811916306255>`_. R Luke, A De Vos,J Wouters- NeuroImage, 2017 - Elsevier.
10. `Comparison of group-level, source localized activity for simultaneous functional near-infrared spectroscopy-magnetoencephalography and simultaneous  …. <http://neurophotonics.spiedigitallibrary.org/article.aspx?articleid=2599313>`_. T Huppert, J Barker, B Schmidt… -  …, 2017 - neurophotonics.spiedigitallibrary.org.
11. `Simultaneous spatio-temporal matching pursuit decomposition of evoked brain responses in MEG. <http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00422-016-0707-5>`_. P Kordowski, A Matysiak, R König,C Sielużycki- Biological Cybernetics, 2017 - Springer.
12. `An improved artifacts removal method for high dimensional EEG. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165027016300814>`_. J Hou, K Morgan,DM Tucker, A Konyn… - Journal of neuroscience  …, 2016 - Elsevier.
13. `Brain mechanisms underlying the brief maintenance of seen and unseen sensory information. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0896627316308017>`_. JR King,N Pescetelli, S Dehaene - Neuron, 2016 - Elsevier.
14. `EEG and MEG: sensitivity to epileptic spike activity as function of source orientation and depth. <http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/0967-3334/37/7/1146/meta>`_. A Hunold, ME Funke, R Eichardt… - Physiological  …, 2016 - iopscience.iop.org.
15. `Matrices efficientes pour le traitement du signal et l'apprentissage automatique. <http://www.theses.fr/2016ISAR0008>`_. L Le Magoarou- 2016 - theses.fr.
16. `Measuring MEG closer to the brain: Performance of on-scalp sensor arrays. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811916307704>`_. J Iivanainen,M Stenroos,L Parkkonen- NeuroImage, 2016 - Elsevier.
17. `Dynamic Decomposition of Spatiotemporal Neural Signals. <https://arxiv.org/abs/1605.02609>`_. L Ambrogioni,MAJ van Gerven,E Maris- arXiv preprint arXiv:1605.02609, 2016 - arxiv.org.
18. `Measuring brain signals to evaluate the role of creativity in interceptive human movement. <http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7473035/>`_. D Pathak,H Yang, TK Chen… - …  (SOSE), 2016 IEEE  …, 2016 - ieeexplore.ieee.org.
19. `BabyMEG: A whole-head pediatric magnetoencephalography system for human brain development research. <http://aip.scitation.org/doi/abs/10.1063/1.4962020>`_. Y Okada, M Hämäläinen, K Pratt… - Review of Scientific  …, 2016 - aip.scitation.org.
20. `M/EEG source localization with multi-scale time-frequency dictionaries. <http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7552337/>`_. Y Bekhti, D Strohmeiery,M Jas… - Pattern Recognition  …, 2016 - ieeexplore.ieee.org.
21. `An Information-Theoretic View of EEG Sensing. <http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7782724/>`_. P Grover, P Venkatesh - Proceedings of the IEEE, 2016 - ieeexplore.ieee.org.
22. `Musical intervention enhances infants' neural processing of temporal structure in music and speech. <http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2016/04/20/1603984113.short>`_. TC Zhao,PK Kuhl- …  of the National Academy of Sciences, 2016 - National Acad Sciences.
23. `Neurofeedback and creativity in interceptive human movement: a theoretical model for neurocybernetics based kinaesthetic multimodal learning agent. <http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7573764/>`_. D Pathak, H Yang, TK Chen - Software Quality, Reliability and  …, 2016 - ieeexplore.ieee.org.
24. `Neuromagnetic evidence for hippocampal modulation of auditory processing. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811915008034>`_. H Chatani, K Hagiwara, N Hironaga, K Ogata… - NeuroImage, 2016 - Elsevier.
25. `Amygdala and insula contributions to dorsal-ventral pathway integration in the prosodic neural network. <https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.01643>`_. DI Leitman, C Edgar, J Berman, K Gamez… - arXiv preprint arXiv: …, 2016 - arxiv.org.
26. `Normal Evoked Response to Rapid Sequences of Tactile Pulses in Autism Spectrum Disorders. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5025534/>`_. S Ganesan,S Khan, KLA Garel… - Frontiers in Human  …, 2016 - ncbi.nlm.nih.gov.
27. `Occipital MEG activity in the early time range (&lt; 300 ms) predicts graded changes in perceptual consciousness. <http://cercor.oxfordjournals.org/content/26/6/2677.short>`_. LM Andersen, MN Pedersen,K Sandberg… - Cerebral  …, 2016 - Oxford Univ Press.
28. `On Speech, Music, and Audiomotor Interactions. <https://repository.library.georgetown.edu/handle/10822/1042839>`_. BM Green - 2016 - repository.library.georgetown.edu.
29. `MEG Connectivity and Power Detections with Minimum Norm Estimates Require Different Regularization Parameters. <http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2985916>`_. AS Hincapié,J Kujala, J Mattout, S Daligault… - Computational  …, 2016 - dl.acm.org.
30. `Linkage mapping with paralogs exposes regions of residual tetrasomic inheritance in chum salmon (Oncorhynchus keta). <http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/1755-0998.12394/full>`_. RK Waples,LW Seeb,JE Seeb- Molecular ecology resources, 2016 - Wiley Online Library.
31. `EEG reconstruction and skull conductivity estimation using a Bayesian model promoting structured sparsity. <https://arxiv.org/abs/1609.06874>`_. F Costa,H Batatia,T Oberlin,JY Tourneret- arXiv preprint arXiv: …, 2016 - arxiv.org.
32. `Functional characterisation of letter-specific responses in time, space and current polarity using magnetoencephalography. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S105381191600166X>`_. L Gwilliams,GA Lewis,A Marantz- NeuroImage, 2016 - Elsevier.
33. `Examining the N400m in affectively negative sentences: A magnetoencephalography study. <http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/psyp.12601/pdf>`_. L Parkes,C Perry, P Goodin - Psychophysiology, 2016 - Wiley Online Library.
34. `Automated rejection and repair of bad trials in MEG/EEG. <http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7552336/>`_. M Jas,D Engemann,F Raimondo… - Pattern Recognition  …, 2016 - ieeexplore.ieee.org.
35. `Effects of physical activity on neural markers of attention in children. <https://jyx.jyu.fi/dspace/handle/123456789/51960>`_. J Vähämaa - 2016 - jyx.jyu.fi.
36. `Early-latency categorical speech sound representations in the left inferior frontal gyrus. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811916000227>`_. J Alho, BM Green, PJC May,M Sams, H Tiitinen… - NeuroImage, 2016 - Elsevier.
37. `Flexible multilayer sparse approximations of matrices and applications. <http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7435254/>`_. L Le Magoarou,R Gribonval- IEEE Journal of Selected Topics  …, 2016 - ieeexplore.ieee.org.
38. `From evoked potentials to cortical currents: Resolving V1 and V2 components using retinotopy constrained source estimation without fMRI. <http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/hbm.23128/full>`_. SA Inverso, XL Goh,L Henriksson,S Vanni… - Human brain  …, 2016 - Wiley Online Library.
39. `Frontal Cortex Supports the Early Structuring of Multiple Solution Steps in Symbolic Problem-solving. <http://www.mitpressjournals.org/doi/abs/10.1162/jocn_a_01027>`_. N Tschentscher,O Hauk- Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 2016 - MIT Press.
40. `Frontal and parietal cortices show different spatiotemporal dynamics across problem-solving stages. <http://www.mitpressjournals.org/doi/abs/10.1162/jocn_a_00960>`_. N Tschentscher,O Hauk- Journal of cognitive neuroscience, 2016 - MIT Press.
41. `Frontal preparatory neural oscillations associated with cognitive control: A developmental study comparing young adults and adolescents. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811916301379>`_. K Hwang,AS Ghuman, DS Manoach,SR Jones… - NeuroImage, 2016 - Elsevier.
42. `Functional Organization of Flash-Induced V1 Offline Reactivation. <http://www.jneurosci.org/content/36/46/11727.abstract>`_. K Funayama, N Hagura, H Ban… - Journal of  …, 2016 - Soc Neuroscience.
43. `Auditory processing in noise is associated with complex patterns of disrupted functional connectivity in autism spectrum disorder. <http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/aur.1714/full>`_. F Mamashli,S Khan,H Bharadwaj… - Autism  …, 2016 - Wiley Online Library.
44. `Population genomics of Salish Sea chum salmon: The legacy of the salmonid whole genome duplication. <https://digital.lib.washington.edu/researchworks/handle/1773/35204>`_. RK Waples- 2016 - digital.lib.washington.edu.
45. `Hemispheric contributions to language reorganisation: An MEG study of neuroplasticity in chronic post stroke aphasia. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0028393216301142>`_. B Mohr, LJ MacGregor, S Difrancesco, K Harrington… - Neuropsychologia, 2016 - Elsevier.
46. `High-frequency neural activity predicts word parsing in ambiguous speech streams. <http://jn.physiology.org/content/116/6/2497.abstract>`_. A Kösem, A Basirat, L Azizi… - Journal of  …, 2016 - Am Physiological Soc.
47. `脳磁図解析のためのノイズを含む多チャンネルデータからのノイズ共分散行列の直接推定法. <https://www.jstage.jst.go.jp/article/jsiamt/26/3/26_353/_article/-char/ja/>`_. 山岸弘幸， 鈴木貴 - 日本応用数理学会論文誌, 2016 - jstage.jst.go.jp.
48. `Incorporating modern neuroscience findings to improve brain–computer interfaces: tracking auditory attention. <http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1741-2560/13/5/056017/meta>`_. M Wronkiewicz,E Larson,AKC Lee- Journal of Neural  …, 2016 - iopscience.iop.org.
49. `Autoreject: Automated artifact rejection for MEG and EEG data. <https://arxiv.org/abs/1612.08194>`_. M Jas,DA Engemann,Y Bekhti,F Raimondo… - arXiv preprint arXiv: …, 2016 - arxiv.org.
50. `Association between theta power in 6-month old infants at rest and maternal PTSD severity: A pilot study. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0304394016305420>`_. PM Sanjuan, C Poremba, LR Flynn, R Savich… - Neuroscience  …, 2016 - Elsevier.
51. `Inter-Subject Alignment of MEG Datasets at the Neural Representational Space. <http://biorxiv.org/content/early/2016/12/22/096040.abstract>`_. Q Zhang,J Borst,RE Kass,JR Anderson- bioRxiv, 2016 - biorxiv.org.
52. `Interacting parallel pathways associate sounds with visual identity in auditory cortices. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811915008599>`_. J Ahveninen, S Huang,SP Ahlfors,M Hämäläinen… - NeuroImage, 2016 - Elsevier.
53. `Is Neural Activity Detected by ERP-Based Brain-Computer Interfaces Task Specific?. <http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0165556>`_. MA Wenzel,I Almeida,B Blankertz- PloS one, 2016 - journals.plos.org.
54. `Language in Context: MEG Evidence for Modality-General and-Specific Responses to Reference Resolution. <http://eneuro.org/content/3/6/ENEURO.0145-16.2016.abstract>`_. C Brodbeck,L Gwilliams,L Pylkkänen- eneuro, 2016 - eneuro.org.
55. `Altered onset response dynamics in somatosensory processing in autism spectrum disorder. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4896941/>`_. S Khan,JA Hashmi,F Mamashli… - Frontiers in  …, 2016 - ncbi.nlm.nih.gov.
56. `간질 환자의뇌 흥분을 연결 관련 평가하는 멀티 모달 Imaging-및 자극 기반 방법. <https://www.jove.com/video/53727/-imaging-?language=Korean>`_. MM Shafi, S Whitfield-Gabrieli,CJ Chu… - 2016 - jove.com.
57. `Prediction signatures in the brain: Semantic pre-activation during language comprehension. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5108799/>`_. B Maess,F Mamashli,J Obleser, L Helle… - Frontiers in Human  …, 2016 - ncbi.nlm.nih.gov.
58. `Tonotopic representation of loudness in the human cortex. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378595516303306>`_. A Thwaites, J Schlittenlacher, I Nimmo-Smith… - Hearing Research, 2016 - Elsevier.
59. `Decoding Dynamic Brain Patterns from Evoked Responses: A Tutorial on Multivariate Pattern Analysis Applied to Time Series Neuroimaging Data. <http://www.mitpressjournals.org/doi/abs/10.1162/jocn_a_01068>`_. T Grootswagers,SG Wardle,TA Carlson- Journal of Cognitive  …, 2016 - MIT Press.
60. `The New York Head—a precise standardized volume conductor model for EEG source localization and tES targeting. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811915011325>`_. Y Huang,LC Parra,S Haufe- NeuroImage, 2016 - Elsevier.
61. `The Role of Electrophysiological Testing in Pediatric Cochlear Implantation. <http://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-1-4939-2788-3_8>`_. KA Gordon - Pediatric Cochlear Implantation, 2016 - Springer.
62. `A simulation framework for benchmarking EEG-based brain connectivity estimation methodologies. <http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10548-016-0498-y>`_. S Haufe,A Ewald- Brain topography, 2016 - Springer.
63. `Bayesian electromagnetic spatio-temporal imaging of extended sources with Markov Random Field and temporal basis expansion. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811916302762>`_. K Liu, ZL Yu,W Wu, Z Gu, Y Li, S Nagarajan - NeuroImage, 2016 - Elsevier.
64. `The inhibition/excitation ratio related to task-induced oscillatory modulations during a working memory task: A multtimodal-imaging study using MEG and MRS. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811916000069>`_. Y Takei, K Fujihara, M Tagawa, N Hironaga,J Near… - NeuroImage, 2016 - Elsevier.
65. `The interactive electrode localization utility: software for automatic sorting and labeling of intracranial subdural electrodes. <http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11548-016-1504-2>`_. RA LaPlante,W Tang, N Peled, DI Vallejo… - International Journal of  …, 2016 - Springer.
66. `The iterative reweighted Mixed-Norm Estimate for spatio-temporal MEG/EEG source reconstruction. <http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7452415/>`_. D Strohmeier,Y Bekhti,J Haueisen… - IEEE transactions on  …, 2016 - ieeexplore.ieee.org.
67. `The lexical categorization model: A computational model of left ventral occipito-temporal cortex activation in visual word recognition. <http://biorxiv.org/content/early/2016/11/03/085332.abstract>`_. B Gagl,F Richlan,P Ludersdorfer, J Sassenhagen… - bioRxiv, 2016 - biorxiv.org.
68. `Consistency of EEG source localization and connectivity estimates. <https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/af94/912ef628414cf3483314ba0a508f826b77c6.pdf>`_. K Mahjoory,VV Nikulin,L Botrel… -  …, 2016 - pdfs.semanticscholar.org.
69. `Conforming Discretizations of Boundary Element Solutions of the Electroencephalography Forward Problem. <https://arxiv.org/abs/1603.06283>`_. L Rahmouni, S Adrian,K Cools,FP Andriulli- arXiv preprint arXiv: …, 2016 - arxiv.org.
70. `Temporal alignment of pupillary response with stimulus events via deconvolution a. <http://asa.scitation.org/doi/abs/10.1121/1.4943787>`_. DR McCloy,ED Larson, B Lau… - The Journal of the  …, 2016 - asa.scitation.org.
71. `Tracking cognitive processing stages with MEG: A spatio-temporal model of associative recognition in the brain. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811916303780>`_. JP Borst,AS Ghuman, JR Anderson - NeuroImage, 2016 - Elsevier.
72. `A graph framework for multimodal medical information processing. <https://arxiv.org/abs/1608.00134>`_. G Drakopoulos,V Megalooikonomou- arXiv preprint arXiv:1608.00134, 2016 - arxiv.org.
73. `Variability of ICA decomposition may impact EEG signals when used to remove eyeblink artifacts. <http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/psyp.12804/full>`_. MB Pontifex,KL Gwizdala,AC Parks… -  …, 2016 - Wiley Online Library.
74. `Comparing the Performance of Popular MEG/EEG Artifact Correction Methods in an Evoked-Response Study. <http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2984845>`_. NT Haumann,L Parkkonen,M Kliuchko… - Computational  …, 2016 - dl.acm.org.
75. `A brain-controlled exoskeleton with cascaded event-related desynchronization classifiers. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0921889016304948>`_. K Lee, D Liu, L Perroud,R Chavarriaga… - Robotics and Autonomous …, 2016 - Elsevier.
76. `A Multimodal Imaging-and Stimulation-based Method of Evaluating Connectivity-related Brain Excitability in Patients with Epilepsy. <https://www.jove.com/video/53727/a-multimodal-imaging-stimulation-based-method-evaluating-connectivity>`_. MM Shafi, S Whitfield-Gabrieli,CJ Chu… - JoVE (Journal of  …, 2016 - jove.com.
77. `Within-and between-session replicability of cognitive brain processes: An MEG study with an N-back task. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0031938416300506>`_. L Ahonen,M Huotilainen,E Brattico- Physiology &amp; behavior, 2016 - Elsevier.
78. `Comparing Features for Classification of MEG Responses to Motor Imagery. <http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0168766>`_. HL Halme,L Parkkonen- PloS one, 2016 - journals.plos.org.
79. `CoSMoMVPA: multi-modal multivariate pattern analysis of neuroimaging data in Matlab/GNU Octave. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4956688/>`_. NN Oosterhof,AC Connolly… - Frontiers in  …, 2016 - ncbi.nlm.nih.gov.
80. `Capturing complex behavior in brain imaging: strategies and instrumentation. <https://aaltodoc.aalto.fi/handle/123456789/20773>`_. A Zhdanov - 2016 - aaltodoc.aalto.fi.
81. `The Importance of Properly Compensating for Head Movements During MEG Acquisition Across Different Age Groups. <http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10548-016-0523-1>`_. E Larson,S Taulu- Brain Topography, 2016 - Springer.
82. `Test‐retest reliability of resting‐state magnetoencephalography power in sensor and source space. <http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/hbm.23027/full>`_. MC Martín‐Buro,P Garcés,F Maestú- Human brain mapping, 2016 - Wiley Online Library.
83. `Quantifying the test-retest reliability of magnetoencephalography resting-state functional connectivity. <http://online.liebertpub.com/doi/abs/10.1089/brain.2015.0416>`_. P Garcés,MC Martín-Buro,F Maestú- Brain connectivity, 2016 - online.liebertpub.com.
84. `A theory of working memory without consciousness or sustained activity. <http://biorxiv.org/content/early/2016/12/14/093815.abstract>`_. D Trubutschek, S Marti, A Ojeda,JR King, Y Mi… - bioRxiv, 2016 - biorxiv.org.
85. `Recovering TMS-evoked EEG responses masked by muscle artifacts. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811916301495>`_. TP Mutanen, M Kukkonen,JO Nieminen,M Stenroos… - Neuroimage, 2016 - Elsevier.
86. `Reference-free removal of EEG-fMRI ballistocardiogram artifacts with harmonic regression. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811915005935>`_. P Krishnaswamy,G Bonmassar, C Poulsen, ET Pierce… - NeuroImage, 2016 - Elsevier.
87. `Previous exposure to intact speech increases intelligibility of its digitally degraded counterpart as a function of stimulus complexity. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811915009398>`_. M Hakonen, PJC May,J Alho, P Alku, E Jokinen… - NeuroImage, 2016 - Elsevier.
88. `Alcohol hits you when it is hard: intoxication, task difficulty, and theta brain oscillations. <http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/acer.13014/full>`_. BQ Rosen, N Padovan… - Alcoholism: Clinical and  …, 2016 - Wiley Online Library.
89. `Spectral and source structural development of mu and alpha rhythms from infancy through adulthood. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1388245715001698>`_. SG Thorpe,EN Cannon,NA Fox- Clinical Neurophysiology, 2016 - Elsevier.
90. `APPLICATION OF SUPPORT VECTOR MACHINES TO LONGITUDINAL FUNCTIONAL NEUROIMAGING DATA. <https://dalspace.library.dal.ca/handle/10222/72586>`_. A Rudiuk - 2016 - dalspace.library.dal.ca.
91. `Decoding the Dynamics of Conscious Perception: The Temporal Generalization Method. <http://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-28802-4_7>`_. S Dehaene,JR King- Micro-, Meso-and Macro-Dynamics of the Brain, 2016 - Springer.
92. `Selective maintenance mechanisms of seen and unseen sensory features in the human brain. <http://www.biorxiv.org/content/early/2016/02/18/040030.abstract>`_. K Jean-Remi,N Pescetelli, S Dehaene - Biorxiv, 2016 - biorxiv.org.
93. `Development of a Group Dynamic Functional Connectivity Pipeline for Magnetoencephalography Data and its Application to the Human Face Processing Network. <http://repository.unm.edu/handle/1928/31729>`_. P Lysne- 2016 - repository.unm.edu.
94. `Review of analytical instruments for EEG analysis. <https://arxiv.org/abs/1605.01381>`_. SN Agapov, VA Bulanov, AV Zakharov… - arXiv preprint arXiv: …, 2016 - arxiv.org.
95. `RELATING AUTISM OCCURRENCE TO FUNCTIONAL CONNECTIVITY IN RESTING-STATE MEG (2014 ADA REPORT). <http://civilstat.com/portfolio/Wieczorek_ADA.pdf>`_. J WIECZOREK- 2016 - civilstat.com.
96. `Rapid tuning shifts in human auditory cortex enhance speech intelligibility. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5187445/>`_. CR Holdgraf, W De Heer,B Pasley, J Rieger… - Nature  …, 2016 - ncbi.nlm.nih.gov.
97. `Relating dynamic brain states to dynamic machine states: human and machine solutions to the speech recognition problem. <https://www.researchgate.net/profile/William_Marslen-Wilson/publication/308033147_Relating_dynamic_brain_states_to_dynamic_machine_states_human_and_machine_solutions_to_the_speech_recognition_problem/links/57d7ccf808ae601b39ae5b54.pdf>`_. C Wingfield, L Su, X Liu,C Zhang,P Woodland… - bioRxiv, 2016 - researchgate.net.
98. `Advances in high-dimensional covariance matrix estimation. <https://depositonce.tu-berlin.de/handle/11303/5357>`_. D Bartz - 2016 - depositonce.tu-berlin.de.
99. `Decoding covert shifts of attention induced by ambiguous visuospatial cues. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4471354/>`_. RE Trachel,M Clerc,TG Brochier- Frontiers in human  …, 2015 - ncbi.nlm.nih.gov.
100. `Design and implementation of a brain computer interface system. <https://depositonce.tu-berlin.de/handle/11303/4734>`_. B Venthur- 2015 - depositonce.tu-berlin.de.
101. `Automated model selection in covariance estimation and spatial whitening of MEG and EEG signals. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811914010325>`_. DA Engemann,A Gramfort- NeuroImage, 2015 - Elsevier.
102. `Developmental evaluation of atypical auditory sampling in dyslexia: Functional and structural evidence. <http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/hbm.22986/full>`_. M Lizarazu,M Lallier,N Molinaro… - Human brain  …, 2015 - Wiley Online Library.
103. `Designing workflows for the reproducible analysis of electrophysiological data. <http://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-50862-7_5>`_. M Denker,S Grün- International Workshop on Brain-Inspired Computing, 2015 - Springer.
104. `Early visual word processing is flexible: Evidence from spatiotemporal brain dynamics. <http://www.mitpressjournals.org/doi/abs/10.1162/jocn_a_00815>`_. Y Chen,MH Davis,F Pulvermüller,O Hauk- Journal of Cognitive  …, 2015 - MIT Press.
105. `Distinct Effects of Memory Retrieval and Articulatory Preparation when Learning and Accessing New Word Forms. <http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0126652>`_. A Nora, H Renvall, JY Kim,R Salmelin- PloS one, 2015 - journals.plos.org.
106. `Distinct cortical codes and temporal dynamics for conscious and unconscious percepts. <https://elifesciences.org/content/4/e05652>`_. M Salti, S Monto,L Charles,JR King,L Parkkonen… - Elife, 2015 - elifesciences.org.
107. `Does the mismatch negativity operate on a consciously accessible memory trace?. <http://advances.sciencemag.org/content/1/10/e1500677.abstract>`_. AR Dykstra, A Gutschalk - Science advances, 2015 - advances.sciencemag.org.
108. `Early parallel activation of semantics and phonology in picture naming: Evidence from a multiple linear regression MEG study. <http://cercor.oxfordjournals.org/content/25/10/3343.short>`_. M Miozzo,F Pulvermüller,O Hauk- Cerebral Cortex, 2015 - Oxford Univ Press.
109. `Deep feature learning for EEG recordings. <https://arxiv.org/abs/1511.04306>`_. S Stober,A Sternin,AM Owen,JA Grahn- arXiv preprint arXiv:1511.04306, 2015 - arxiv.org.
110. `Bayesian Structured Sparsity Priors for EEG Source Localization Technical Report. <https://arxiv.org/abs/1509.04576>`_. F Costa,H Batatia,T Oberlin,JY Tourneret- arXiv preprint arXiv: …, 2015 - arxiv.org.
111. `EEGNET: an open source tool for analyzing and visualizing M/EEG connectome. <http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0138297>`_. M Hassan,M Shamas,M Khalil,W El Falou… - PloS one, 2015 - journals.plos.org.
112. `EEG can track the time course of successful reference resolution in small visual worlds. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4653275/>`_. C Brodbeck,L Gwilliams,L Pylkkänen- Frontiers in psychology, 2015 - ncbi.nlm.nih.gov.
113. `Automated measurement and prediction of consciousness in vegetative and minimally conscious patients. <https://hal.inria.fr/hal-01225254/>`_. D Engemann,F Raimondo,JR King,M Jas… - ICML Workshop on  …, 2015 - hal.inria.fr.
114. `EEG functional connectivity is partially predicted by underlying white matter connectivity. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811914010258>`_. CJ Chu,N Tanaka, J Diaz,BL Edlow, O Wu… - NeuroImage, 2015 - Elsevier.
115. `Enhanced neural synchrony between left auditory and premotor cortex is associated with successful phonetic categorization. <https://books.google.co.in/books?hl=en&lr=&id=GX2PCgAAQBAJ&oi=fnd&pg=PA8&ots=RknQUEYxCa&sig=vgpx5ID2c1j8BR3pUe6Rh49Ei-U>`_. J Alho,FH Lin,M Sato, H Tiitinen,M Sams… - … in speech perception, 2015 - books.google.com.
116. `Magnetoencephalography for Clinical Pediatrics: Recent Advances in Hardware, Methods, and Clinical Applications. <https://www.thieme-connect.com/products/ejournals/html/10.1055/s-0035-1563726>`_. W Gaetz, RS Gordon,C Papadelis… - Journal of Pediatric  …, 2015 - thieme-connect.com.
117. `Evidence for morphological composition in compound words using MEG. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4412057/>`_. TL Brooks, DC de Garcia - Frontiers in human neuroscience, 2015 - ncbi.nlm.nih.gov.
118. `Evidence of syntactic working memory usage in MEG data. <http://www.ling.ohio-state.edu/~vanschm/resources/uploads/cmcl/proceedings/cdrom/pdf/CMCL9.pdf>`_. M van Schijndel,B Murphy, W Schuler - Proceedings of CMCL, 2015 - ling.ohio-state.edu.
119. `Real-Time Magnetoencephalography for Neurofeedback and Closed-Loop Experiments. <http://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-4-431-55037-2_17>`_. L Parkkonen- Clinical Systems Neuroscience, 2015 - Springer.
120. `Real-time MEG source localization using regional clustering. <http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10548-015-0431-9>`_. C Dinh, D Strohmeier,M Luessi,D Güllmar… - Brain topography, 2015 - Springer.
121. `Real-time machine learning of MEG: Decoding signatures of selective attention. <https://aaltodoc.aalto.fi/handle/123456789/15550>`_. M Jas- 2015 - aaltodoc.aalto.fi.
122. `Report Date: December 10, 2015. <http://surveygizmoresponseuploads.s3.amazonaws.com/fileuploads/11364/363557/36-436fdac9508245b2466ae88a11884603_Final_report.pdf>`_. AKC Lee, M Wronkiewicz - 2015 - … .s3.amazonaws.com.
123. `Accumulated source imaging of brain activity with both low and high-frequency neuromagnetic signals. <https://books.google.co.in/books?hl=en&lr=&id=j9BnCwAAQBAJ&oi=fnd&pg=PA302&ots=tz_YJSRdkQ&sig=1zT4kH0LJJPE_i9KUigF7PnfdNk>`_. J Xiang, Q Luo, R Kotecha, A Korman… - …  Advances and the  …, 2015 - books.google.com.
124. `Somatosensory cortex functional connectivity abnormalities in autism show opposite trends, depending on direction and spatial scale. <http://brain.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2015/03/11/brain.awv043.abstract>`_. S Khan,K Michmizos, M Tommerdahl, S Ganesan… - Brain, 2015 - Oxford Univ Press.
125. `Sparse EEG source localization using Bernoulli laplacian priors. <http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7134742/>`_. F Costa,H Batatia,L Chaari… - IEEE Transactions on  …, 2015 - ieeexplore.ieee.org.
126. `Tempo estimation from the EEG signal during perception and imagination of music. <http://bib.sebastianstober.de/bcmi2015.pdf>`_. A Sternin,S Stober,JA Grahn… - …  Workshop on Brain- …, 2015 - bib.sebastianstober.de.
127. `The Neural Representation of Polysemy: The Case of Dot-objects. <http://eprints-phd.biblio.unitn.it/1583/>`_. Y Tao - 2015 - eprints-phd.biblio.unitn.it.
128. `A multi-subject, multi-modal human neuroimaging dataset. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4412149/>`_. DG Wakeman,RN Henson- Scientific data, 2015 - ncbi.nlm.nih.gov.
129. `A hierarchical Krylov–Bayes iterative inverse solver for MEG with physiological preconditioning. <http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/0266-5611/31/12/125005/meta>`_. D Calvetti,A Pascarella,F Pitolli,E Somersalo… - Inverse  …, 2015 - iopscience.iop.org.
130. `The role of temporal predictability in semantic expectation: An MEG investigation. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0010945215000945>`_. EF Lau, E Nguyen - Cortex, 2015 - Elsevier.
131. `Towards Music Imagery Information Retrieval: Introducing the OpenMIIR Dataset of EEG Recordings from Music Perception and Imagination.. <http://bib.sebastianstober.de/ismir2015.pdf>`_. S Stober,A Sternin,AM Owen,JA Grahn- ISMIR, 2015 - bib.sebastianstober.de.
132. `Transcutaneous vagus nerve stimulation modulates tinnitus-related beta-and gamma-band activity. <http://journals.lww.com/ear-hearing/Abstract/2015/05000/Transcutaneous_Vagus_Nerve_Stimulation_Modulates.12.aspx>`_. P Hyvärinen, S Yrttiaho, J Lehtimäki… - Ear and  …, 2015 - journals.lww.com.
133. `Wyrm: A brain-computer interface toolbox in python. <http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s12021-015-9271-8>`_. B Venthur,S Dähne,J Höhne, H Heller,B Blankertz- Neuroinformatics, 2015 - Springer.
134. `低频振荡电位的能量和相位稳定性与偶极子电流活动相关性的仿真. <http://wulixb.iphy.ac.cn/fileup/PDF/2015-14-148701.pdf>`_. 葛曼玲， 魏孟佳， 师鹏飞， 陈营， 付晓璇， 郭宝强… - 物理学报, 2015 - wulixb.iphy.ac.cn.
135. `基于有限元方法的 theta 节律能量与导电媒质关系的研究. <http://www.cqvip.com/qk/96363x/201504/665924065.html>`_. 葛曼玲， 郭宝强， 闫志强， 王向阳， 陈盛华， 孙英… - 北京生物医学 …, 2015 - cqvip.com.
136. `Physiological consequences of abnormal connectivity in a developmental epilepsy. <http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/ana.24343/full>`_. MM Shafi,M Vernet, D Klooster,CJ Chu… - Annals of  …, 2015 - Wiley Online Library.
137. `Online visualization of brain connectivity. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165027015003222>`_. M Billinger,C Brunner,GR Müller-Putz- Journal of neuroscience methods, 2015 - Elsevier.
138. `Non-linear processing of a linear speech stream: The influence of morphological structure on the recognition of spoken Arabic words. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0093934X15000929>`_. L Gwilliams,A Marantz- Brain and language, 2015 - Elsevier.
139. `Neuroplasticity in human alcoholism: studies of extended abstinence with potential treatment implications. <https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4476599/>`_. G Fein,VA Cardenas- Alcohol research: current reviews, 2015 - ncbi.nlm.nih.gov.
140. `Exploring spatio-temporal neural correlates of face learning. <http://ai2-s2-pdfs.s3.amazonaws.com/b7e5/bc52d7fc0dcaee8287ab8838e936550e618e.pdf>`_. Y Yang- 2015 - ai2-s2-pdfs.s3.amazonaws.com.
141. `FAμST: Speeding up linear transforms for tractable inverse problems. <http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7362838/>`_. L Le Magoarou,R Gribonval… - …  (EUSIPCO), 2015 23rd  …, 2015 - ieeexplore.ieee.org.
142. `Facilitated early cortical processing of nude human bodies. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0301051115001039>`_. J Alho,N Salminen,M Sams,JK Hietanen… - Biological  …, 2015 - Elsevier.
143. `Fast optimal transport averaging of neuroimaging data. <http://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-19992-4_20>`_. A Gramfort,G Peyré,M Cuturi- International Conference on Information  …, 2015 - Springer.
144. `Attention drives synchronization of alpha and beta rhythms between right inferior frontal and primary sensory neocortex. <http://www.jneurosci.org/content/35/5/2074.short>`_. MD Sacchet, RA LaPlante, Q Wan… - Journal of  …, 2015 - Soc Neuroscience.
145. `Influence of intracranial electrode density and spatial configuration on interictal spike localization: a case study. <http://journals.lww.com/clinicalneurophys/Abstract/2015/10000/Influence_of_Intracranial_Electrode_Density_and.14.aspx>`_. OV Lie,AM Papanastassiou,JE Cavazos… - Journal of Clinical  …, 2015 - journals.lww.com.
146. `Leveraging anatomical information to improve transfer learning in brain–computer interfaces. <http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1741-2560/12/4/046027/meta>`_. M Wronkiewicz,E Larson,AKC Lee- Journal of neural  …, 2015 - iopscience.iop.org.
147. `AnyWave: a cross-platform and modular software for visualizing and processing electrophysiological signals. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165027015000187>`_. B Colombet, M Woodman,JM Badier… - Journal of neuroscience  …, 2015 - Elsevier.
148. `An internet-based real-time audiovisual link for dual MEG recordings. <http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0128485>`_. A Zhdanov,J Nurminen, P Baess, L Hirvenkari… - PloS one, 2015 - journals.plos.org.
149. `MEM-diffusion MRI framework to solve MEEG inverse problem. <http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7362709/>`_. B Belaoucha, JM Lina,M Clerc… - … (EUSIPCO), 2015 23rd …, 2015 - ieeexplore.ieee.org.
150. `An Integrated Neuroscience and Engineering Approach to Classifying Human Brain-States. <http://oai.dtic.mil/oai/oai?verb=getRecord&metadataPrefix=html&identifier=AD1001845>`_. AK Lee, M Wronkiewicz - 2015 - DTIC Document.
151. `Medidas espectrales y de conectividad funcional con magnetoencefalografía: fiabilidad y aplicaciones a deterioro cognitivo leve. <http://eprints.ucm.es/33593/>`_. P Garcés López - 2015 - eprints.ucm.es.
152. `Mind the noise covariance when localizing brain sources with M/EEG. <http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7270835/>`_. D Engemann, D Strohmeier,E Larson… - Pattern Recognition  …, 2015 - ieeexplore.ieee.org.
153. `Modulation of the~ 20‐Hz motor‐cortex rhythm to passive movement and tactile stimulation. <http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/brb3.328/full>`_. E Parkkonen, K Laaksonen,H Piitulainen… - Brain and  …, 2015 - Wiley Online Library.
154. `Neuroimaging, neural population models for. <http://link.springer.com/10.1007/978-1-4614-6675-8_70>`_. I Bojak,M Breakspear- Encyclopedia of Computational Neuroscience, 2015 - Springer.
155. `Neuromagnetic Decomposition of Social Interaction. <http://kups.ub.uni-koeln.de/6262/1/thesis_engemann_da.pdf>`_. DA Engemann- 2015 - kups.ub.uni-koeln.de.
156. `Auditory Conflict Resolution Correlates with Medial–Lateral Frontal Theta/Alpha Phase Synchrony. <http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0110989>`_. S Huang, S Rossi, M Hämäläinen, J Ahveninen - PloS one, 2014 - journals.plos.org.
157. `A finite-element reciprocity solution for EEG forward modeling with realistic individual head models. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811914007307>`_. E Ziegler, SL Chellappa, G Gaggioni, JQM Ly… - NeuroImage, 2014 - Elsevier.
158. `Blind denoising with random greedy pursuits. <http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/6847117/>`_. M Moussallam,A Gramfort,L Daudet… - IEEE Signal  …, 2014 - ieeexplore.ieee.org.
159. `Improving spatial localization in MEG inverse imaging by leveraging intersubject anatomical differences. <http://journal.frontiersin.org/article/10.3389/fnins.2014.00330/full>`_. E Larson,RK Maddox,AKC Lee- Frontiers in neuroscience, 2014 - journal.frontiersin.org.
160. `Integrating neuroinformatics tools in TheVirtualBrain. <http://journal.frontiersin.org/article/10.3389/fninf.2014.00036/abstract>`_. MM Woodman, L Pezard, L Domide… - Frontiers in  …, 2014 - journal.frontiersin.org.
161. `Infants' brain responses to speech suggest analysis by synthesis. <http://www.pnas.org/content/111/31/11238.short>`_. PK Kuhl, RR Ramírez, A Bosseler… - Proceedings of the  …, 2014 - National Acad Sciences.
162. `Spatiotemporal signatures of lexical–semantic prediction. <http://cercor.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2014/10/14/cercor.bhu219.short>`_. EF Lau,K Weber,A Gramfort,MS Hämäläinen… - Cerebral  …, 2014 - Oxford Univ Press.
163. `Two distinct dynamic modes subtend the detection of unexpected sounds. <http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0085791>`_. JR King,A Gramfort,A Schurger,L Naccache… - PloS one, 2014 - journals.plos.org.
164. `Protocoles d'interaction cerveau-machine pour améliorer la performance d'attention visuo-spatiale chez l'homme. <https://tel.archives-ouvertes.fr/tel-01077931/>`_. R Trachel - 2014 - tel.archives-ouvertes.fr.
165. `Online distributed source localization from EEG/MEG data. <http://www.computingonline.net/index.php/computing/article/view/617>`_. C Pieloth,TR Knosche, B Maess… - International Journal of  …, 2014 - computingonline.net.
166. `Vector ℓ 0 latent-space principal component analysis. <http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/6854399/>`_. M Luessi, MS Hamalainen… - Acoustics, Speech and  …, 2014 - ieeexplore.ieee.org.
167. `MoBILAB: an open source toolbox for analysis and visualization of mobile brain/body imaging data. <https://books.google.co.in/books?hl=en&lr=&id=DpogBQAAQBAJ&oi=fnd&pg=PA50&ots=rldZ-8D7se&sig=djxEdCnDgrBRYDHZ8p5t06MyU6A>`_. A Ojeda,N Bigdely-Shamlo,S Makeig- Front. Hum. Neurosci, 2014 - books.google.com.
168. `Brain network connectivity during language comprehension: Interacting linguistic and perceptual subsystems. <http://cercor.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2014/12/01/cercor.bhu283.short>`_. E Fonteneau,M Bozic,WD Marslen-Wilson- Cerebral Cortex, 2014 - Oxford Univ Press.
169. `Voxel-wise resting-state MEG source magnitude imaging study reveals neurocircuitry abnormality in active-duty service members and veterans with PTSD. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2213158214001132>`_. MX Huang, KA Yurgil, A Robb, A Angeles… - NeuroImage: Clinical, 2014 - Elsevier.
170. `Localization of MEG human brain responses to retinotopic visual stimuli with contrasting source reconstruction approaches. <http://journal.frontiersin.org/article/10.3389/fnins.2014.00127>`_. N Cicmil,H Bridge,AJ Parker… - Frontiers in  …, 2014 - journal.frontiersin.org.
171. `The connectome visualization utility: Software for visualization of human brain networks. <http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0113838>`_. RA LaPlante,L Douw,W Tang,SM Stufflebeam- PloS one, 2014 - journals.plos.org.
172. `Supramodal processing optimizes visual perceptual learning and plasticity. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811914001165>`_. N Zilber,P Ciuciu,A Gramfort, L Azizi… - Neuroimage, 2014 - Elsevier.
173. `Improved MEG/EEG source localization with reweighted mixed-norms. <http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/6858545/>`_. D Strohmeier,J Haueisen… - Pattern Recognition in  …, 2014 - ieeexplore.ieee.org.
174. `Functional roles of 10 Hz alpha-band power modulating engagement and disengagement of cortical networks in a complex visual motion task. <http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0107715>`_. KD Rana,LM Vaina- PloS one, 2014 - journals.plos.org.
175. `Estimating Learning Effects: A Short-Time Fourier Transform Regression Model for MEG Source Localization. <http://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-45174-9_8>`_. Y Yang,MJ Tarr,RE Kass- …  on Machine Learning and Interpretation in  …, 2014 - Springer.
176. `Encoding of event timing in the phase of neural oscillations. <http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1053811914001013>`_. A Kösem,A Gramfort,V van Wassenhove- NeuroImage, 2014 - Elsevier.
177. `Encoding cortical dynamics in sparse features. <https://books.google.co.in/books?hl=en&lr=&id=THImCwAAQBAJ&oi=fnd&pg=PA78&ots=ymvuskEDW4&sig=wtdn4GDCzKbfujPvVH2P7yqBmGw>`_. S Khan,J Lefèvre,S Baillet… - Frontiers in human  …, 2014 - books.google.com.
178. `ERF and scale-free analyses of source-reconstructed MEG brain signals during a multisensory learning paradigm. <http://www.theses.fr/2014PA112040>`_. N Zilber - 2014 - theses.fr.
179. `Whole brain functional connectivity using phase locking measures of resting state magnetoencephalography. <http://journal.frontiersin.org/article/10.3389/fnins.2014.00141/full>`_. BT Schmidt,AS Ghuman… - Frontiers in  …, 2014 - journal.frontiersin.org.
180. `Decoding perceptual thresholds from MEG/EEG. <http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/6858510/>`_. Y Bekhti, N Zilber,F Pedregosa… - Pattern Recognition  …, 2014 - ieeexplore.ieee.org.
181. `Covariance shrinkage for autocorrelated data. <http://papers.nips.cc/paper/5399-covariance-shrinkage-for-autocorrelated-data>`_. D Bartz,KR Müller- Advances in neural information processing  …, 2014 - papers.nips.cc.
182. `Cortical oscillations as temporal reference frames for perception. <https://tel.archives-ouvertes.fr/tel-01069219/>`_. A Kosem- 2014 - tel.archives-ouvertes.fr.
183. `Mapping tonotopic organization in human temporal cortex: representational similarity analysis in EMEG source space.. <http://europepmc.org/articles/pmc4228977>`_. L Su, I Zulfiqar, F Jamshed,E Fonteneau… - Frontiers in  …, 2013 - europepmc.org.
184. `MEG and EEG data analysis with MNE-Python. <http://journal.frontiersin.org/article/10.3389/fnins.2013.00267/abstract>`_. A Gramfort,M Luessi,E Larson… - Frontiers in  …, 2013 - journal.frontiersin.org.
185. `Interoperability of Free Software Packages to Analyze Functional Human Brain Data. <http://www.synesisjournal.com/vol4_g/Sander_2013_G85-89.pdf>`_. T Sander-Thömmes, A Schlögl - 2010 - synesisjournal.com.
186. `The effect of alpha binaural beat on frontal esd alpha asymmetry on different gender. <http://www.arpnjournals.org/jeas/research_papers/rp_2016/jeas_0416_4042.pdf>`_. H Norhazman, N Mohamad Zaini,MN Taib… - 2006 - arpnjournals.org.
187. `Brain Beats: Tempo extraction from EEG data. <https://www.audiolabs-erlangen.de/content/05-fau/professor/00-mueller/03-publications/2016_StoberPM_BeatEEG_ISMIR.pdf>`_. S Stober, T Prätzlich, M Meinard - Proceedings of the International  … - audiolabs-erlangen.de.
188. `The Temporal Structure of Memory Retrieval1. <http://act-r.psy.cmu.edu/wordpress/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/meg21.pdf>`_. JR Anderson,JP Borst, JM Fincham,A Ghuman… - act-r.psy.cmu.edu.
189. `Règles de sélection de variables pour accélerer la localisation de sources en MEG et EEG sous contrainte de parcimonie. <http://www.josephsalmon.eu/papers/gretsi2015.pdf>`_. O FERCOQ,A GRAMFORT,J SALMON- josephsalmon.eu.
190. `Neuroplasticity in Human Alcoholism: Studies of Extended Abstinence with Potential Treatment Implications George Fein1, 2 and Valerie A. Cardenas1  …. <http://www.nbresearch.com/PDF/2014/Neuroplasticity%20in%20Human%20Alcoholism-%20Studies%20of%20Extended%20Abstinence%20with%20Potential%20Treatment%20Implications_Fein%20G,%20Cardenas%20V.pdf>`_. G Fein, AMP Center - nbresearch.com.
